artisan_roles/faq.md, before:

---
layout: faq
title: Guild Artisan Personas FAQ
---

How does the process of moving up a persona become initiated? [Issue #8](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/8)
: The process of moving from one persona to another should be initiated with the help of your mentor. In the absence of a mentor, the most senior artisan on your team or account can step in. During your Career Retro (facilitated by your Account DE and Account Artisan), one topic of conversation should be about your career progression. Using the persona definitions as guidelines, a career plan should be constructed and reviewed during every Career Retro. Currently, the expectation is to have Career Retros on at least a 6 month cadence.

Who will judge an artisan's behaviors? [Issue #8](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/8)
: Artisans will be treated to individual attention, much like the current new-hire interview process. An artisan's mentor and peers are responsible for giving frequent and honest feedback to help the artisan grow. Once the artisan has been identified, evaluations will be given by Master Craftsmen and Craftsmen, depending on availability and level of the artisan being evaluated.

How will the behaviors be judged (checked off) since some are subjective? [Issue #8](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/8)
: For behaviors that are subjective, pairing and in-person observation will take place.

Pillar should provide an opportunity for community participation (10% time?) [Issue #12](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/12)
: We acknowledge that some people hold this opinion. However, this is not something we are going to implement at this time.

Are my promotion qualifications tied heavily to my participation in activities outside of work (community participation)? [Inferred, Issue #12](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/12)
: Depends on how you define 'heavily.' Will someone who participates in the community grow and mature in their profession at a faster rate? Experience says 'yes'. So, an artisan that participates in activities outside of their billable time will progress at a faster rate.

Are measures like the number of releases optional? Or explain how that works? [Issue #14](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/314)
: The answer is in the same vein as the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

Similarly, are the number of projects an optional criteria? [Issue #14](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/14)
: This is addressed in the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

What are marketable technologies? [Issue #15](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/15)
: Marketable technologies are technologies that we can build solutions around. In other words, clients are actively requesting them and / or we see them becoming hot in the near term.

Where can I find the Pillar Practice Documents [Issue #15](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/15)
: The Pillar Practice Documents are a work in progress.

How do we plan to evaluate new hires? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: Using the same process we do today: kata, pairing, leadership interview.

Does everyone start at Apprentice? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: No.

Does past experience (employers/clients/etc) pre-Pillar count for something? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: Yes.  See the answers to the questions for Issue #21 for further enlightenment.

Related, to prior experiences with deployments, clients, etc. count for something? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: Yes.  See the answers to the questions for Issue #21 for further enlightenment.

If someone has satisfied all requirements other than number of clients does that count? [Issue #18](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/18)
: The answer is in the same vein as the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

What is the purpose of Years of Experience? [Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: The purpose of years of experience is to give an artisan a general idea of where they stand on their journey.

Are the years of experience cumulative across the career or just at Pillar? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: Depends on the quality of the years accrued. The same year repeated 10 times is not the same as 10 years of professional growth.

Do multiple projects at one client count the same or similarly to multiple clients? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: Depends on what has been learned through the projects.  Dealing with the same issues and the same personalities on multiple projects is not as valuable (toward career growth) as learning to deal with a variety of issues and personalities in different cultural and political environments.

What is the intent behind hard numbers like Years of Experience and Clients worked for? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: To provide artisans with a general baseline for where they stand within the company and in the larger software development community.  It also serves as a rough measure of the variety of different types of issues and personalities and the range of different cultural and political environments that an artisan has learned to deal with throughout their career.

How can mentoring be a requirement when it isn't formally recognized and supported by the organization? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: Mentoring is simply being concerned with the success of those around you. Thankfully, at Pillar, being focused on the success of others means we do not need a formal process for mentoring to occur. We have begun asking, during career retros, about a person's mentoring relationships.

Are requirements tied to badges and/or microdegrees in StepItUp? [Issue #24](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/24)
: Loosely.

Is there a recommended reading list? [Issue #26](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/26) More generally, is there an index of recommended training materials?
: This list is under construction at the moment.

What happens if people are not doing a few of the items on the list? [Issue #28](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/28)
: They should aim to go above and beyond in other areas in order to compensate.

Clarify the expectations listed with each persona as the 'thing you should be doing to go to the next level' v. 'to be at this level' [Issue #29](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/29)
: We have framed them as clear acceptance criteria and it should be clear in the wording.

What are the marketable technologies in areas other than programming? e.g. For testers [Issue #30](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/30)
: This is a new focus for us. We will need to work together to define marketable technologies for job families other than development. 

What about depth v. breadth of experience? Is my only path to advancement to be a generalist? [Issue #31](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/31)
: We believe in T-shaped people. There is a place for multiple specializations and the generalizing specialist.

What is the sales/marketing/strategy view of polyglot and its utility to them? [Issue #31](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/31)
: Pillar values smart people that adapt to changing technical challenges.

Related, is there a difference in the kind of talent for Forge dwellers and embedded consultants? [Issue #31](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/31) [That is an interesting notion]
: In short, no. Although different skill sets may be required day-to-day while working at the Forge vs. at a client site, our goal is that any of our artisans should have the skill sets necessary to work effectivey in either environment as needed.

Who is responsible for the 'future edification' of artisans? [Issue #32](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/32)
: The short answer is that you are solely responsible for (read: "only you have control over") your own professional development and growth.  The long answer is that we have an entire company full of artisans who all love teaching and helping others.  While only you can take control and ensure that you are taking steps to further your own professional development and growth, there are many artisans within Pillar who would be glad to assist you in whatever way they can.  But it is up to you to ask for help when you need it, don't expect that others will initiate and ensure that you are continuing to grow.

Should we count projects rather than clients? [Issue #33](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/33)
: This is addressed in the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

What does 'actively integrating engineering practices and value practices' mean? [Issue #34](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/34)
: The artisan should be able to understand both the technical and business value of doing a thing. They should be able to quantify (in $ to the client, if necessary) the value of the thing they are building and the approach they are suggesting. In short, every artisan should strive to bridge the gap between the technical and the business requirements.

What are the Value Practices? [Issue #34](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/34)
: Many of the Value Practices can be found as badges in [StepItUp](http://stepitup.pillartechnology.com).

Why are we experimenting with a new hierarchical structure? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: The current structure does not adequately support career development. It does not scale.

How does the guild structure align with compensation? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: The guild structure, and more importantly a person's place on the craftsmanship path, informs the compensation decision. It is NOT the only data point taken into consideration and we do not assume the guild system is the answer to all of these types of nuanced decisions.

How do we make sure we have the proper ratio of the various artisan groups in order to staff a project? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: Guild leaders will document and continuously update the preferred structure for a healthy team that takes into account productivity and the need to develop people.

How do these personas relate to the roles played at the client location? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: As a consultant, you will always be playing multiple roles at any given time.  You will be minimally playing one role for Pillar and another role for a client.  Sometimes they will overlap greatly.  Other times, they will be completely different.  And even other times, you might be playing more than one role for the client (e.g. both the product owner and the iteration manager).  It entirely depends on what the client needs.  However, you shouldn't ever be playing a role at a client that you aren't either already able to handle or ready to grow into.  The example in the issue was, "what if an apprentice was asked to play a master craftsman role at a client."  That should never happen.  The apprentice wouldn't be ready to play that role.  If it does happen, please escalate that immediately, because we want to ensure that our artisans are always placed in a role where they can grow and be successful, and we want to ensure that we have the appropriate people in the appropriate roles to enable success at our clients.

How is this not stack ranking? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: It's definitely not stack ranking.  We haven't looked at the distribution of talent currently at Pillar, fit it to a bell curve, and draw arbitrary lines for the different guild personas.  In other words, there is not a set number of Master Craftsmen, Craftsmen, Journeymen, or Apprentices in the organization. If there are highly qualified individuals that qualify to be Craftsmen, they will be Craftsmen. If Pillar becomes top-heavy because of this, that's a nice problem to have. Also, this process and distribution will be driven by your peers, not by management.

For those who are familiar with learning theory, you can think of the personas as, in some ways, running parallel to learning stages.  (Apologies if some liberties have been taken with the Step It Up learning stages and their names.  Maslow's learning stages are added for additional context.)

Persona | SIU Learning Stage | Maslow's Learning Stage | Other Notes
------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- | -----------
Pre-Apprentice | -- | Unconscious Incompetence | Identified as Ready to Start Learning
Apprentice | Aware | Conscious Incompetence |
Journeyman | Demonstrating | Conscious Competence |
Craftsman | Teaching | Unconscious Competence |
Master Craftsman | -- | -- | Leading / Guiding / Setting the Direction

Who is the target? [Issue #36](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/36)
: The target for these personas and the Guilds are the artisans at Pillar. Not included in the initial rollout are Delivery personnel, nor those designated as Executive Consultants.

Will a slow progression through the hierarchy be perceived as stagnation by an outsider (outside of Pillar)? [Issue #36](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/36)
: These are internal roles, intended to assist in helping to guide our artisans along their career path, to help us ensure that we have an appropriate balance of knowledge and experience on a team, and to help ensure that we have appropriate support available for our artisans as we continue to grow as a company.  At a client site, you will always have different roles that you will be playing for them, usually using same names that the client uses.  *We will not be arbitrarily promoting people through the roles in order to make people "look good" in clients' eyes.*

Will the vanity titles mean anything (outside of Pillar)? [Issue #36](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/36)
: Honestly, we don't care.  The sole purpose of their existence is to assist with our internal needs.

How will we provide support for artisans to progress without working unsustainable hours? [Issue #39](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/39)
: See answer for Issue 32.

Will appropriate and gender neutral allowances be made for candidates at every turn? [Issue #40-41](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/40)
: The goal of this system is to solve the career progression ambiguity at Pillar. There was not a specific focus on diversity. We welcome any and all input from our Diversity Committee.

Will the master craftsmen have training and diversity goals for individuals and teams? [Issue #41](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/41)
: The goal of this system is to solve the career progression ambiguity at Pillar. There was not a specific focus on diversity. We welcome any and all input from our Diversity Committee.

Commit message:

Clarify persona acceptance criteria with an example

artisan_roles/faq.md, after:

---
layout: faq
title: Guild Artisan Personas FAQ
---

How does the process of moving up a persona become initiated? [Issue #8](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/8)
: The process of moving from one persona to another should be initiated with the help of your mentor. In the absence of a mentor, the most senior artisan on your team or account can step in. During your Career Retro (facilitated by your Account DE and Account Artisan), one topic of conversation should be about your career progression. Using the persona definitions as guidelines, a career plan should be constructed and reviewed during every Career Retro. Currently, the expectation is to have Career Retros on at least a 6 month cadence.

Who will judge an artisan's behaviors? [Issue #8](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/8)
: Artisans will be treated to individual attention, much like the current new-hire interview process. An artisan's mentor and peers are responsible for giving frequent and honest feedback to help the artisan grow. Once the artisan has been identified, evaluations will be given by Master Craftsmen and Craftsmen, depending on availability and level of the artisan being evaluated.

How will the behaviors be judged (checked off) since some are subjective? [Issue #8](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/8)
: For behaviors that are subjective, pairing and in-person observation will take place.

Pillar should provide an opportunity for community participation (10% time?) [Issue #12](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/12)
: We acknowledge that some people hold this opinion. However, this is not something we are going to implement at this time.

Are my promotion qualifications tied heavily to my participation in activities outside of work (community participation)? [Inferred, Issue #12](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/12)
: Depends on how you define 'heavily.' Will someone who participates in the community grow and mature in their profession at a faster rate? Experience says 'yes'. So, an artisan that participates in activities outside of their billable time will progress at a faster rate.

Are measures like the number of releases optional? Or explain how that works? [Issue #14](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/314)
: The answer is in the same vein as the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

Similarly, are the number of projects an optional criteria? [Issue #14](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/14)
: This is addressed in the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

What are marketable technologies? [Issue #15](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/15)
: Marketable technologies are technologies that we can build solutions around. In other words, clients are actively requesting them and / or we see them becoming hot in the near term.

Where can I find the Pillar Practice Documents [Issue #15](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/15)
: The Pillar Practice Documents are a work in progress.

How do we plan to evaluate new hires? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: Using the same process we do today: kata, pairing, leadership interview.

Does everyone start at Apprentice? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: No.

Does past experience (employers/clients/etc) pre-Pillar count for something? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: Yes.  See the answers to the questions for Issue #21 for further enlightenment.

Related, to prior experiences with deployments, clients, etc. count for something? [Issue #16](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/16)
: Yes.  See the answers to the questions for Issue #21 for further enlightenment.

If someone has satisfied all requirements other than number of clients does that count? [Issue #18](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/18)
: The answer is in the same vein as the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

What is the purpose of Years of Experience? [Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: The purpose of years of experience is to give an artisan a general idea of where they stand on their journey.

Are the years of experience cumulative across the career or just at Pillar? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: Depends on the quality of the years accrued. The same year repeated 10 times is not the same as 10 years of professional growth.

Do multiple projects at one client count the same or similarly to multiple clients? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: Depends on what has been learned through the projects.  Dealing with the same issues and the same personalities on multiple projects is not as valuable (toward career growth) as learning to deal with a variety of issues and personalities in different cultural and political environments.

What is the intent behind hard numbers like Years of Experience and Clients worked for? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: To provide artisans with a general baseline for where they stand within the company and in the larger software development community.  It also serves as a rough measure of the variety of different types of issues and personalities and the range of different cultural and political environments that an artisan has learned to deal with throughout their career.

How can mentoring be a requirement when it isn't formally recognized and supported by the organization? [Inferred, Issue #21](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/21)
: Mentoring is simply being concerned with the success of those around you. Thankfully, at Pillar, being focused on the success of others means we do not need a formal process for mentoring to occur. We have begun asking, during career retros, about a person's mentoring relationships.

Are requirements tied to badges and/or microdegrees in StepItUp? [Issue #24](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/24)
: Loosely.

Is there a recommended reading list? [Issue #26](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/26) More generally, is there an index of recommended training materials?
: This list is under construction at the moment.

What happens if people are not doing a few of the items on the list? [Issue #28](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/28)
: They should aim to go above and beyond in other areas in order to compensate.

Clarify the expectations listed with each persona as the 'thing you should be doing to go to the next level' v. 'to be at this level' [Issue #29](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/29)
: The expectations listed with each persona are framed as Acceptance Criteria. This means, for example, that an artisan is ready to become a Journeyman if they meet all of the expectations listed with the Apprentice persona, even if they do not meet any of the expectations listed with the Journeyman persona.

What are the marketable technologies in areas other than programming? e.g. For testers [Issue #30](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/30)
: This is a new focus for us. We will need to work together to define marketable technologies for job families other than development. 

What about depth v. breadth of experience? Is my only path to advancement to be a generalist? [Issue #31](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/31)
: We believe in T-shaped people. There is a place for multiple specializations and the generalizing specialist.

What is the sales/marketing/strategy view of polyglot and its utility to them? [Issue #31](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/31)
: Pillar values smart people that adapt to changing technical challenges.

Related, is there a difference in the kind of talent for Forge dwellers and embedded consultants? [Issue #31](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/31) [That is an interesting notion]
: In short, no. Although different skill sets may be required day-to-day while working at the Forge vs. at a client site, our goal is that any of our artisans should have the skill sets necessary to work effectivey in either environment as needed.

Who is responsible for the 'future edification' of artisans? [Issue #32](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/32)
: The short answer is that you are solely responsible for (read: "only you have control over") your own professional development and growth.  The long answer is that we have an entire company full of artisans who all love teaching and helping others.  While only you can take control and ensure that you are taking steps to further your own professional development and growth, there are many artisans within Pillar who would be glad to assist you in whatever way they can.  But it is up to you to ask for help when you need it, don't expect that others will initiate and ensure that you are continuing to grow.

Should we count projects rather than clients? [Issue #33](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/33)
: This is addressed in the answers to the questions for Issue #21.

What does 'actively integrating engineering practices and value practices' mean? [Issue #34](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/34)
: The artisan should be able to understand both the technical and business value of doing a thing. They should be able to quantify (in $ to the client, if necessary) the value of the thing they are building and the approach they are suggesting. In short, every artisan should strive to bridge the gap between the technical and the business requirements.

What are the Value Practices? [Issue #34](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/34)
: Many of the Value Practices can be found as badges in [StepItUp](http://stepitup.pillartechnology.com).

Why are we experimenting with a new hierarchical structure? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: The current structure does not adequately support career development. It does not scale.

How does the guild structure align with compensation? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: The guild structure, and more importantly a person's place on the craftsmanship path, informs the compensation decision. It is NOT the only data point taken into consideration and we do not assume the guild system is the answer to all of these types of nuanced decisions.

How do we make sure we have the proper ratio of the various artisan groups in order to staff a project? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: Guild leaders will document and continuously update the preferred structure for a healthy team that takes into account productivity and the need to develop people.

How do these personas relate to the roles played at the client location? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: As a consultant, you will always be playing multiple roles at any given time.  You will be minimally playing one role for Pillar and another role for a client.  Sometimes they will overlap greatly.  Other times, they will be completely different.  And even other times, you might be playing more than one role for the client (e.g. both the product owner and the iteration manager).  It entirely depends on what the client needs.  However, you shouldn't ever be playing a role at a client that you aren't either already able to handle or ready to grow into.  The example in the issue was, "what if an apprentice was asked to play a master craftsman role at a client."  That should never happen.  The apprentice wouldn't be ready to play that role.  If it does happen, please escalate that immediately, because we want to ensure that our artisans are always placed in a role where they can grow and be successful, and we want to ensure that we have the appropriate people in the appropriate roles to enable success at our clients.

How is this not stack ranking? [Issue #35](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/35)
: It's definitely not stack ranking.  We haven't looked at the distribution of talent currently at Pillar, fit it to a bell curve, and draw arbitrary lines for the different guild personas.  In other words, there is not a set number of Master Craftsmen, Craftsmen, Journeymen, or Apprentices in the organization. If there are highly qualified individuals that qualify to be Craftsmen, they will be Craftsmen. If Pillar becomes top-heavy because of this, that's a nice problem to have. Also, this process and distribution will be driven by your peers, not by management.

For those who are familiar with learning theory, you can think of the personas as, in some ways, running parallel to learning stages.  (Apologies if some liberties have been taken with the Step It Up learning stages and their names.  Maslow's learning stages are added for additional context.)

Persona | SIU Learning Stage | Maslow's Learning Stage | Other Notes
------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- | -----------
Pre-Apprentice | -- | Unconscious Incompetence | Identified as Ready to Start Learning
Apprentice | Aware | Conscious Incompetence |
Journeyman | Demonstrating | Conscious Competence |
Craftsman | Teaching | Unconscious Competence |
Master Craftsman | -- | -- | Leading / Guiding / Setting the Direction

Who is the target? [Issue #36](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/36)
: The target for these personas and the Guilds are the artisans at Pillar. Not included in the initial rollout are Delivery personnel, nor those designated as Executive Consultants.

Will a slow progression through the hierarchy be perceived as stagnation by an outsider (outside of Pillar)? [Issue #36](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/36)
: These are internal roles, intended to assist in helping to guide our artisans along their career path, to help us ensure that we have an appropriate balance of knowledge and experience on a team, and to help ensure that we have appropriate support available for our artisans as we continue to grow as a company.  At a client site, you will always have different roles that you will be playing for them, usually using same names that the client uses.  *We will not be arbitrarily promoting people through the roles in order to make people "look good" in clients' eyes.*

Will the vanity titles mean anything (outside of Pillar)? [Issue #36](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/36)
: Honestly, we don't care.  The sole purpose of their existence is to assist with our internal needs.

How will we provide support for artisans to progress without working unsustainable hours? [Issue #39](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/39)
: See answer for Issue 32.

Will appropriate and gender neutral allowances be made for candidates at every turn? [Issue #40-41](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/40)
: The goal of this system is to solve the career progression ambiguity at Pillar. There was not a specific focus on diversity. We welcome any and all input from our Diversity Committee.

Will the master craftsmen have training and diversity goals for individuals and teams? [Issue #41](https://github.com/PillarTechnology/guild-docs/issues/41)
: The goal of this system is to solve the career progression ambiguity at Pillar. There was not a specific focus on diversity. We welcome any and all input from our Diversity Committee.
